Most of the files in this directory are configuration files for the
supported devices. They are included as header files by the modules
an thus have to be in valid C syntax.


Most of these files define just two macro. The first is DEVICE_NAME,
for example

#define DEVICE_NAME     "SR510" 

Please note that this macro defines a string so it's enclosed in double
quotes. This device name is used in error messages from the device driver
and, if the device is accessed via the GPIB bus, has to be identical to
the name used in the GPIB configuration file, usually /etc/gpib.conf.


All device configuration files should also define the macro DEVICE_TYPE,
for the SR510 lock-in amplifier it is defined as 

#define DEVICE_TYPE     "lock-in amplifier"

Also this macro is a string, so it must be included in double quotes.


The DEVICE_TYPE macro gives the program some idea about the function of
the device. It should be identical to the device type macro for devices
with the same or very similar function. If you include a new device
please check for the device type macros of similar devices and, if
applicable, use the same definition. If you create a module for a
completely new kind of device pick a descriptive name.

Currently the following device type names are used:

-  "boxcar"
-  "digitizer"
-  "gaussmeter"
-  "lock-in amplifier"
-  "magnet power supply"
-  "pulser"
-  "RF synthesizer"
-  "temperature_controller"
-  "voltmeter"


You may define as many other macros as you need for a new device. Usually
you should only include things into the configuration file that you feel
should be rather simple to find and to be changed by the users of your
moduleand that you don't want to hide deep down somewhere in the module.
As an example take the serial port a device is connected to: If this gets
changed later it should be simple to find the place where to apply changes
for someone that didn't write the module, so it probably should be defined
in the configuration file instead somewhere in the innards of the module
itself.


Please note: Changes to the configuration file of a device only take effect
after recompiling the module.
